In this video segment,
we'll discuss the types of problems where InnerSource can help.
We'll do this by presenting a hypothetical,
yet believable collaboration scenario.
We'll examine common approaches
that teams take for this type of situation,
and both the advantages,
and the drawbacks, of each approach.
This conversation will help us to draw
conclusions and lessons about InnerSource.
Well, imagine two teams,
with one producing software that is consumed by another.
To make it concrete,
imagine a team producing an API Service
that a team producing a User Experience consumes.
At times, to deliver desired features, the Experience
may need to make a request for new functionality
from the API.
Oftentimes, the API will be able to deliver
this requested functionality.
No problem.
However, depending on schedules,
or other prioritizing constraints,
there may be times when that new functionality
can't be delivered right away.
In this scenario,
the Experience has a few options they might take.
The first we'll call "Wait It Out".
With this approach,
the Experience does nothing, and simply waits,
hoping that the API will eventually be able to fill their feature request.
Now, the advantage is that probably it requires
the least amount of extra work on the part of the Experience.
There's a clear drawback though,
in that, the Experience doesn't get their desired functionality.
At least, not right away.
And, depending on future prioritization on the part of the API,
that feature may not be delivered at all.
Another approach we'll call "Workaround".
With this approach, the Experience may do some extra work
to compensate for the lack of the requested functionality.
This may be extra work in their own project,
or they may start up a new project
that gives them the functionality they were looking for via some other means.
The benefit here is that the Experience can get what they want,
when they want it, and by their own effort only.
No dependency on another team.
There's some real drawbacks though.
The Experience has inadvertently signed up
for the long term burden of maintenance of this new code.
It's code that oftentimes is not in the domain of their core team competency.
In addition, other teams of the company that have the same problem,
are unable to use this specialized, one-off solution.
And the company as a whole has acquired duplicate code and projects
in the same problem area that are being worked on in an uncoordinated manner.
Another approach we'll call "Escalate".
With "Escalate", the experience doesn't take no for an answer,
but attempts to influence the API to reconsider
and prioritize their requested functionality.
Oftentimes this appeal is made to somebody in the management hierarchy
of the API.
It's common for the request to come from someone in the management hierarchy
of the Experience.
Let's get the bosses together, have them talk it out.
The potential advantage is that the Experience can get what it wants,
when it wants it,
without needing to maintain the new code long term.
There are several disadvantages.
In practice, the process of escalation
tends to have high friction and take a large amount of time.
And this time is spent by competent engineers and engineering leaders
whose time is directed toward the non-productive
non-engineering task of escalation.
This process is so time intensive that it doesn't scale.
A team that attempts to continually advocate for what it needs
via escalation will simply run out of the time
and social credibility that it needs to do so.
This conversation teaches us about InnerSource.
And that InnerSource is meant to apply to the same type of collaborative situation
where a team producing software is unable to deliver functionality
that a team that's consuming it needs.
What InnerSource does is provide a way for the consuming team to get the benefits
of "Wait it Out", "Workaround", and "Escalate"
without those associated drawbacks.